if you were looking for another reason
to hate bats
the silence will fill your belly full of
reasons
in this video on nerd explains i'll give
you a quick and dirty explanation of the
movie
a breakdown of the vesps and show you
why you might not survive
and to not end things on a dark gruesome
note i'll also tell you how to beat
the vesps the silence is a mix between a
quiet place
piranha and aliens the intro contains
disturbing imagery of humans being
violent [ __ ]
as well as circle of life type footage
which
suggests we're about to get what's
coming a group of overzealous cave
diving researchers
accidentally busted open an entrance to
a cave full of giant
fanged meat-eating bats as you can
imagine
the researchers were not able to do much
more research
after that the vesps as they called them
started flying across the nation
consuming anyone that made noise
major cities were effectively meat
markets for the vesps
so stanley tucci and his family hopped
in the minivan
and went off-roading while plebs
sheltered in place
and sat in traffic like any movie where
silence is golden
we have a convenient deaf protagonist in
her family that all know sign language
they eventually make it out of the city
without getting the meat picked off
their bones
and their belly is filled with baby bat
eggs they come across some religious
zealots
that they didn't take seriously soon
enough in an effort to abduct tucci's
daughter
the colts sent generation z terrorists
with an iphone suicide vest
to infiltrate the family's home and set
off sound bombs
which would attract the vesps it almost
works
but tucci's mother-in-law tackles the
thugs while screaming
causing them all to be slaughtered by
the vesps
tucci and co ambushed the cult with
sickles ending them
swiftly allie using the internet finds
out a critical weakness of the bests
they don't like the cold so they all
move to canada
so ally could live out her dreams as a
post-apocalyptic
katniss bowhunting roided up bats with
her boyfriend
what are the vesps the name given to
these creatures
vesps is named after avispa the spanish
word for
wasp which doesn't really do them any
justice
they aren't like wasps at all except for
how they swarm their prey with
overwhelming numbers
they are cave-dwelling bat-like
carnivores capable of winged flight
they aren't aliens or monsters like in a
quiet place
these creatures were found in an
uncharted subterranean cave system in
north america
where they have been surviving for
millions of years they probably fed off
of fish in subterranean rivers
as they don't come across as the type
that gets satisfied by insects
they do seem to be a kind of pterosaur
which is a flying reptile from the
jurassic period
they most closely resemble the
dimorphodon in my
uninformed opinion since caves obviously
don't have light this led to them
becoming blind
and dare i say it they hunt by sound
instead i really hate that they hunt by
sound
this makes it seem like they hunt as if
they were a blindfolded human with a gun
drunkenly shooting at where they think
they heard a deer roaming
while bumping into rocks and trees it's
not like that at all
realistically the vesps would actually
be using echolocation to navigate their
environment
which basically means they wouldn't be
blind and they could see their
environment as well as their prey
which is you in the movie though they
are completely blind
i wouldn't say their hearing is
outstanding or anything
i mean an owl can hear rodents under two
feet of snow
but the vesps can't hear someone
casually walking around
right in front of them they have thin
translucent skin
which is an adaptation from living in
caves that receive no ultraviolet
radiation so they will most likely
gravitate towards shaded areas to avoid
getting burned
their lack of fur makes them vulnerable
to the colder weather
and finally they are really dumb like
fly into a wood chipper because it made
sounds
and they think all sounds are food type
dumb
maybe let's stop for a second to
consider why we might not survive
a million strong swarm of giant flying
piranhas
swirling above us a lot of the danger
comes from the people around you
and if not it probably means you are the
one causing the danger
what the hell does that mean don't make
noise dude it means keep your mouth hole
shut and don't say stupid things like
that
people who scream and squeal at anything
that happened suddenly
put your phones on silence okay
yeah nobody else did that so if one
person nearby forgot to use silent mode
it's game over but we're supposed to
just
stay here and stay silent
then the cities are the worst place to
be weren't they
uh except that they don't attack cities
they attack
individual people that make noise if you
stayed indoors
and didn't make any noise you'd be
relatively safe
immediately hopping into your truck and
driving into traffic with everyone
panicking
is a significantly worse idea thousands
of people are getting eaten alive
everywhere in the city
and you go to the nearest gas station to
top off
grab slurpees and tell stories about
uncle joey
when you're riding with uncle glenn so
he's a tough guy in times like this
sound is death and people are driving
around honking and screaming and popping
shotguns off
she can't hear you okay okay don't you
what do you want
just shut up okay other people are the
second biggest danger in this situation
don't leave me here man please those
things are gonna catch up to me
maybe you should have thought about that
earlier before being a dick
if you do decide to make a run for the
border wait until you're out of the city
to get gas
even 30 miles out of the city is much
safer
[Music]
again this is why trying to drive out of
the city is problematic
you have creatures that are slaughtering
anybody that makes sound
and these idiots are in their cars
honking
[Music]
not to mention the emergency vehicles
that also didn't turn off their siren
if your loved one has emphysema you're
gonna have to figure something else out
traveling in the open with him is
suicide
trying to bring your dog with you i have
a dog too but mr tucci made the right
call
it's either that or getting picked clean
down to the bones
there's a huge difference in how i'd go
about it though i definitely would not
send my dog out to get ripped apart by
those creatures
if you decided to go off the grid or go
on a fishing trip or something
and didn't get the warning that all this
was happening well you'd probably end up
like this lady
you'll have to deal with babies the same
way as dogs if you can't find a way to
keep them quiet or
soundproof the area you're gonna have to
take them out
take him out
hmm take him out take him out like for
drinks
no no no take him out take out
no uh take him out
if you do happen to get noticed and
bitten and you start panicking and
yelping
well that pretty much seals your fate
any chance of you eliminating the
attacking creature quietly and getting
away
is over you can't effectively fight the
vesps without drawing more attention to
yourself
and they always travel in packs or
swarms of hundreds or thousands of them
never underestimate the people that
survive the initial onslaught of
any apocalypse they're usually cunning
resourceful
and persistent stanley tucci brushing
off and ignoring this guy is a huge
mistake
that the grandma ends up paying for
later
dad
what is it it's a little girl
not recognizing obvious traps how many
movies do you need to see before you
realize
that a damsel in distress is the most
obvious ploy in the book
so we know what not to do in this
situation
but what are the ways that we can beat
the vesps let's do this two ways
first let's look at what you could do if
you were in this situation
then let's look at what our military
could do so how could you
beat the vesps don't run like we
mentioned earlier
jumping into your noisy car to try to
make it out of the city
when there is sheer chaos honking
traffic looters and people screaming
in the streets is probably not a good
idea
if you've watched my other videos you
know that when the apocalypse begins
you're most likely going to die in a car
accident
sure if you have a tesla you may be able
to use other people as a distraction
to make it out of the city where you can
then find a nice old couple
willing to share their farmhouse with
you but that's a huge risk
and besides making it out of the city
doesn't really help in this situation
the vesps are everywhere and sure they
have a hard time surviving in winter
conditions
but so do humans without all of our
first world resources
shelter in place this is a good move
because your average house provides
decent sound insulation and contains a
lot of food and supplies
if you have babies smokers dogs or just
bad allergies it's far better to stay
inside and use
mattresses blankets or paper mache to
sound proof your house and keep them
there
cover board and insulate your windows
and doors
this will prevent vests or crazies from
hearing you and smashing their way in
or from throwing phone bombs through
your windows
find or make weapons you can't expect
that you can just
chill in your house scrolling through
reddit without any problems
you need to get prepared to fight people
or vests
the problem is that any weapon you make
needs to be quieter than 30 decibels
when used
which is the sound of a whisper from a
few feet away
anything above that and you're gonna
become best droppings
if you do have a firearm could you
suppress it enough with an oil can
a pillow or a potato yes a potato
we have a potato on the end my 22.
not really subsonic rounds with homemade
suppressors still produce around 90 to
100 decibels the grandma coughing
produced around
80 to 90 decibels and she just about got
everyone killed
unless you have an extremely quiet
firearm shooting subsonic ammo with a
high end suppressor
it's probably too dangerous it's also
worth mentioning
that most of the time you can get away
with one quick
quiet sound as the first noise just gets
their attention
once they are at attention though the
second sound they hear
they can pinpoint and attack breaking a
twig
might not get you killed but repeatedly
coughing will
if you don't have a firearm what weapons
could you make at home
you can make a surprisingly effective
bow with a little handiwork in some pvc
pipe
that has enough power to take down small
animals or
vesps in this case you can make a
blowgun that can be lethal to the
thin-skinned vesps with a long tube and
nails dip the darts and feces to cause
some deadly infections
easily penetrate into wooden posts
without even trying
they'll also stick into tree trunks or
completely abuse the side of a wooden
deck
i was able to hit some targets from over
100 feet away and if i missed the darts
just sailed right into the concrete wall
behind it which actually blows my mind
completely
create a spear by sharpening an end of a
wooden pole
i'd avoid using this on vesps but this
is an easy weapon to use and can be
given to children to defend
themselves you'll have food for months
in your house
which should buy you enough time for the
military to fight them back
and if the military hasn't shown up
after months
well it looks like you're on your own
with food running out and the military
nowhere to be found you'll have to
scavenge the problem is
raiding houses or stores is too
dangerous
you could be seen and targeted by
looters someone might be defending the
home you're raiding
and you could easily make too much noise
trying to crowbar into someone's home
by knocking a lamp over once inside or
by stepping on a soda can someone left
on the floor
if you can't get food from houses or
stores where do you get
food well vesps do have meat on them
it's gross but i mean meat is meat
as far as how to hunt vesps here is how
i suggest
doing it using rocks lure some into the
open in your backyard
once you get one that's by itself kill
it with an arrow
sneakily grab the dead vesp and cook it
over a wood fireplace
if you have to go scavenging for medical
supplies in an emergency
bring your weapons some makeshift
diversions and if possible
use walkie-talkies with headphones to
communicate with others in your party
makeshift diversions can be fireworks
wind-up alarms
bells or anything that makes sound and
is throwable
if you get noticed by vesps these will
give you a chance to escape
if you get confronted by crazies you can
also use these
as sound bombs to attract vesps to them
while you escape
after you finish a scavenging run don't
just return home in a straight line
you could end up leading crazies right
back to home base
take unpredictable paths back watch your
six
set traps and make sure that nobody is
following you before you go home
how could the military beat the vesps
one of the cheaper
faster and easier methods would be to
get tank squadrons to drive around
town the vesps will lean on the tanks
and try to clot them with no success
as is standard operating procedure for
tanks when boarded by enemy infantry
each tank will rake its partner tanks
with machine gun fire
killing all the vest
a less blunt method would be to use
shielded directed
energy weapons mounted on apcs to patrol
towns
and burn up vesps with precision in
minimal collateral damage
these weapons are designed to destroy
swarms of enemy drones
so i think it's quite fitting for this
situation and once the area is clear
load up the apc's with survivors and
head back to base
we can also use their strength which is
their hearing
against them sonic weapons like the long
range acoustic device can produce
incredibly powerful sound wave
while the lrad is supposedly only able
to produce 162 decibels
if they could crank it up to 180
decibels
then you could disorient them and cause
their lungs and other organs to pop like
balloons
i suspect the vesps won't be attracted
to the sounds produced by this weapon
the best for last a kill dozer pulling a
wood chipper
i talked about the wood chipper in my
video on how to beat the monsters in a
quiet place
and it looks like it worked quite well
in this movie
now these methods help us kill the bulk
of them but they still can reproduce so
ultimately we'll have to find some way
of completely eradicating them
if you have any ideas let me know that's
how i would try to beat the vesps in the
movie
the silence do you agree or disagree
with my methods
how would you beat the vesps let me know
in the comments
if you like these videos and want to see
more consider subscribing
thanks for watching
you